Updates for capgen-v1 (#81)
NCAR/ccpp-doc: CCPPtechnical/source/HostSideCoding.rst

Reviewer: We now also support external data types

Reviewer: which reminds me that there are now also TWO ways to define kind definitions. On the command line (argument to capgen) or in the metadata files. Each time, we have the choice between default = iso_fortran_env kinds and external/module-provided kinds).

Variable Requirements on the Host Model Side
==================================================

> All variables required to communicate between the host model and the physics must be allocated by the host model. Variables needed to communicate between physics schemes can be allocated by the framework (e.g., Suite Variables); However, host models can still choose to allocate physics interstitial variables if they desire. The framework also controls several mandatory (control) variables ``errflg``, ``errmsg``, ``ccpp_suite``, ``group_name``, ``lb``, ``ub``, ``mythread``, ``nthreads``, and ``nphys_thread``, as explained in :numref:`Section %s <CCPPMandatory>`

Reviewer: The framework does not CONTROL the mandatory runtime control variables. It expects them. The host model controls them.

Mandatory are  ``errflg``, ``errmsg``, ``ccpp_suite``, ``group_name``, ``lb``, ``ub``, and ``nphys_thread``,

Opt-in pairs are ``mythread`` + ``nthreads`` and ``myinstance`` + ``ninstances``.

The local names, however, don't matter. What matters are the standard names in the control metadata table. The local name in the control metadata table is what CCPP expects in the call signature `call ccpp_physics_run(lb=...)`.

Opt-in means: either provided `thread_number` + `number_of_threads`, or none of them. Same for `instance_number` + `number_of_instances`.

If you provide the instance pair, then all framework internal variables will be dimensioned by number of instances. Otherwise, they are dimensioned by number_of_instances = 1. If a host variable is dimensioned by `number_of_instances`, then at runtime the framework will select the slice for `instance_number`. Similar for thread_number / number_of_threads.

number_of_physics_threads is different; that's always required and controls how many threads physics can use internally during that call to ccpp_physics_<phase>

Author: My mistake. I added some information on the opt-in pairs in [section 6.4.1](https://ccpp-techdoc--81.org.readthedocs.build/en/81/HostSideCoding.html#ccpp-mandatory-control-variables-for-host-and-scheme-coupling)

and :ref:`Listing 6.2 <example_vardefs_meta>` for examples of host model metadata).

* The ``standard_name`` must match that of the target variable in the physics scheme.
* The shape and size of the variable (as defined in the host model Fortran code) must match that of the target variable. 

> * The type and kind may differ between host-model and scheme, as the framework will automatically add these conversions.

Reviewer: + vertical flipping

The CCPP must be able to detect when arrays need to be allocated, and when certain tracers must be
present in order to perform operations or tests in the auto-generated caps (e.g. unit conversions,

> Association checks for optional scheme variables, etc.). This is accomplished with the attribute ``active`` in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
association checks for optional scheme variables, etc.). This is accomplished with the attribute ``active`` in the
```

.. _CCPPMandatory:

,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
CCPP Mandatory (control) variables for Host and Scheme Coupling
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
 
Mandatory variables required by the CCPP framework are stored in a ``control`` metadata table. These variables are provided by the host model and passed directly through the CCPP API into the physics schemes. There are nine control variables:

* CCPP suite name (``suite_name``)
* CCPP group name (``group_name``)
* Lower bound of horizontal_dimension (``lb``)
* Upper bound of horizontal_dimension (``ub``)
* Number of openMP threads(``nthreads``)
* Current openMP thread number(``mythread``)

> * Number of openMP threads used by physics(``nphys_threads``)

Reviewer: see above

    long_name = start of horizontal range for this phase
    units = index
    dimensions = ()
    type = integer
  [ ub ]
    standard_name = horizontal_loop_end
    long_name = end of horizontal range for this phase
    units = index
    dimensions = ()
    type = integer
  [ mythread ]
    standard_name = thread_number
    long_name = current thread number
    units = index
    dimensions = ()
    type = integer
  [ nthreads ]
    standard_name = number_of_threads
    long_name = total number of OpenMP threads
    units = count
    dimensions = ()
    type = integer
  [ nphys_threads ]
    standard_name = number_of_physics_threads
    long_name = thread budget for physics-internal OpenMP
    units = count
    dimensions = ()
    type = integer
  [ errmsg ]
    standard_name = ccpp_error_message
    long_name = error message for CCPP error handling
    units = none
    dimensions = ()
    type = character
    kind = len=512
  [ errflg ]
    standard_name = ccpp_error_code
    long_name = error flag for CCPP error handling
    units = 1
    dimensions = ()
    type = integer

*Listing 6.11: Mandatory variables that* **must** **be** **provided** *by the Host model*

> For the ``ccpp_register``, ``ccpp_init``, and ``ccpp_final`` phases, ``suite_name``, ``errmsg``, and ``errflg`` are the only required variables. For all other phases, ccpp_physics_init,  ccpp_physics_timestep_init, ccpp_physics_run, ccpp_physics_timestep_final, **all nine variables** are required.

Reviewer: Nope, see above.

For multi-instance models, the current instance number and number of instances is also required for the register, init, final calls - and for all ccpp_physics_* calls.

It would be better to refer to the standard names rather than the local names.

,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
Registering, Initializing and Finalizing the CCPP
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,

At the beginning of each run, any required suite or constituent data needs to be allocated. Similarly, at the end of each run, it needs to be deallocated. This is done with subroutines ``ccpp_init`` and ``ccpp_final``. These subroutines should not be confused with ``ccpp_physics_init`` and ``ccpp_physics_final``, which were described in :numref:`Chapter %s <SuiteGroupCaps>`.

> To obtain runtime information that is need by the physics (e.g., Number of constituents), the subroutine ``ccpp_register`` can be called prior to ``ccpp_init`` and ``ccpp_physics_init`` to query for this information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To obtain runtime information that is need by the physics (e.g., number of constituents) and to inform the framework about the number of CCPP instances (if used), the subroutine ``ccpp_register`` must be called prior to ``ccpp_init`` and ``ccpp_physics_init`` to query for this information.
```
